Abraham Silberschatz is the Sidney J. Weinberg Professor & Chair of Computer
Science at Yale University. Prior to joining Yale, he was the Vice President
of the Information Sciences Research Center at Bell Laboratories. Prior to that,
he held a chaired professorship in the Department of Computer Sciences at the
University of Texas at Austin.
Professor Silberschatz is an ACM Fellow and an IEEE Fellow. He received
the 2002 IEEE Taylor L. Booth Education Award, the 1998 ACM Karl V. Karlstrom
Outstanding Educator Award, and the 1997 ACM SIGMOD Contribution
Award. In recognition of his outstanding level of innovation and technical
excellence, he was awarded the Bell Laboratories President's Award for three
different projects-the QTM Project (1998), the DataBlitz Project (1999), and
the Netlnventory Project (2004).
Professor Silberschatz' writings have appeared in numerous ACM and
IEEE publications and other professional conferences and journals. He is a
coauthor of the textbook Database System Concepts. He has also written Op-Ed
articles for the New York Times, the Boston Globe, and the Hartford Courant,
among others.
Peter Baer Galvin is the chief technologist for Corporate Technologies
(www.cptech.com), a computer facility reseller and integrator. Before that, Mr.
Galvin was the systems manager for Brown University's Computer Science
Department. He is also Sun columnist for ;login: magazine. Mr. Galvin has
written articles for Byte and other magazines, and has written columns for
Sun World and SysAdmin magazines. As a consultant and trainer, he has given
talks and taught tutorials on security and system administration worldwide.
Greg Gagne is chair of the Computer Science department at Westminster
College in Salt Lake City where he has been teaching since 1990. In addition
to teaching operating systems, he also teaches computer networks, distributed
systems, and software engineering. He also provides workshops to computer
science educators and industry professionals.