Chapter 9, Virtual-Memory Management, updates the Solaris example to
include Solaris 10 memory managernent.
Chapter 10, File System, is updated with current technologies and
capacities.
Chapter 11, Implementing File Systems, includes a full description of
Sun's ZFS file system and expands the coverage of volumes and directories.
Chapter 12, Secondary-Storage Structure, adds coverage of iSCSI, volumes,
and ZFS pools.
Chapter 13, I/0 Systems, adds coverage of PCIX PCI Express, and HyperTransport.
Chapter 16, Distributed Operating Systems, adds coverage of 802.11
wireless networks.
Chapter 21, The LimiX System, has been updated to cover the latest version
of the LimiX kernel.
Chapter 23, Influential Operating Systems, increases coverage of very
early computers as well as TOPS-20, CP/M, MS-DOS, Windows, and the
original Mac OS.
To emphasize the concepts presented in the text, we have added several
programming problems and projects that use the POSIX and Win32 APis, as
well as Java. We have added more than 15 new programming problems, which
emphasize processes, threads, shared memory, process synchronization, and
networking. In addition, we have added or modified several programming
projects that are more involved than standard programming exercises. These
projects include adding a system call to the Linux kernel, using pipes on
both UNIX and Windows systems, using UNIX message queues, creating
multithreaded applications, and solving the producer-consumer problem
using shared memory.
The Eighth Edition also incorporates a set of operating-system simulators
designed by Steven Robbins of the University of Texas at San Antonio. The
simulators are intended to model the behavior of an operating system as it
performs various tasks, such as CPU and disk-head schedulil1.g, process creation
and interprocess communication, starvation, and address translation. These
simulators are written in Java and will run on any computer systern with
Java 1.4. Students can download the simulators from WileyPLUS and observe
the behavior of several operating system concepts in various scenarios. In
addition, each simulator includes several exercises that ask students to set
certain parameters of the simulator, observe how the system behaves, and then
explain this behavior. These exercises can be assigned through WileyPLUS. The
WileyPLUS course also includes algorithmic problems and tutorials developed
by Scott M. Pike of Texas A&M University.