The following teaching supplencents are available in WileyPLUS and on
www.wiley.coml go I global/ silberschatz: a set of slides to accompany the
book, model course syllabi, all C and Java source code, up-to-date errata,
three case study appendices and the Distributed Communication appendix.
The WileyPLUS course also contains the simulators and associated exercises,
additional practice exercises (with solutions) not found in the text, and a
testbank of additional problems. Students are encouraged to solve the practice
exercises on their own and then use the provided solutions to check their own
answers.
To obtain restricted supplements, such as the solution guide to the exercises
in the text, contact your local J orne Wiley & Sons sales representative. Note that
these supplements are available only to faculty who use this text.
We use the mailman system for communication among the users of Operating
System Concepts. If you wish to use this facility, please visit the following URL
and follow the instructions there to subscribe:
http: I I mailman.cs.yale.edul mailmanllistinfo I os-book
The mailman mailing-list system provides many benefits, such as an archive
of postings, as well as several subscription options, including digest and Web
only. To send messages to the list, send e-mail to:
os-book@cs.yale.edu
Depending on the message, we will either reply to you personally or forward
the message to everyone on the mailing list. The list is moderated, so you will
receive no inappropriate mail.
Students who are using this book as a text for class should not use the list
to ask for answers to the exercises. They will not be provided.
We have attempted to clean up every error in this new edition, but-as
happens with operating systems-a few obscure bugs may remain. We would
appreciate hearing from you about any textual errors or omissions that you
identify.
If you would like to suggest improvements or to contribute exercises,
we would also be glad to hear from you. Please send correspondence to
os-book-authors@cs.yale.edu.
This book is derived from the previous editions, the first three of which
were coauthored by James Peterson. Others who helped us with previous
editions include Hamid Arabnia, Rida Bazzi, Randy Bentson, David Black,