Joseph Boykin, Jeff Brumfield, Gael Buckley, Roy Campbell, P. C. Capon, John
Carpenter, Gil Carrick, Thomas Casavant, Bart Childs, Ajoy Kum.ar Datta,
Joe Deck, Sudarshan K. Dhall, Thomas Doeppner, Caleb Drake, M. Racsit
Eskicioglu, Hans Flack, Robert Fowler, G. Scott Graham, Richard Guy, Max
Hailperin, Rebecca I-Iartncan, Wayne Hathaway, Christopher Haynes, Don
Heller, Bruce Hillyer, Mark Holliday, Dean Hougen, Michael Huangs, Ahmed
Kamet Marty Kewstet Richard Kieburtz, Carol Kroll, Marty K westet Thomas
LeBlanc, John Leggett, Jerrold Leichter, Ted Leung, Gary Lippman, Carolyn
Miller, Michael Molloy, Euripides Montagne, Yoichi Muraoka, Jim M. Ng,
Banu Ozden, Ed Posnak, Boris Putanec, Charles Qualline, John Quarterman,
Mike Reiter, Gustavo Rodriguez-Rivera, Carolyn J. C. Schauble, Thomas P.
Skimcer, Yannis Smaragdakis, Jesse St. Laurent, John Stankovic, Adam Stauffer,
Steven Stepanek, John Sterling, Hal Stern, Louis Stevens, Pete Thomas, David
Umbaugh, Steve Vinoski, Tommy Wagner, Larry L. Wear, Jolm Werth, James
M. Westall, J. S. Weston, and Yang Xiang
Parts of Chapter 12 were derived from a paper by Hillyer and Silberschatz
[1996]. Parts of Chapter 17 were derived from a paper by Levy and Silberschatz
[1990]. Chapter 21 was derived from an unpublished manuscript by Stephen
Tweedie. Chapter 22 was derived from an unpublished manuscript by Dave
Probert, Cliff Martin, and Avi Silberschatz. Appendix C was derived from
an unpublished manuscript by Cliff Martin. Cliff Martin also helped with
updating the UNIX appendix to cover FreeBSD. Some of the exercises and
accompanying solutions were supplied by Arvind Krishnamurthy.
Mike Shapiro, Bryan Cantrill, and Jim Mauro answered several Solarisrelated
questions. Bryan Cantrill from Sun Microsystems helped with the ZFS
coverage. Steve Robbins of the University of Texas at San Antonio designed
the set of simulators that we incorporate in WileyPLUS. Reece Newman
of Westminster College initially explored this set of simulators and their
appropriateness for this text. Josh Dees and Rob Reynolds contributed coverage
of Microsoft's .NET. The project for POSIX message queues was contributed by
John Trona of Saint Michael's College in Colchester, Vermont.
Marilyn Turnamian helped generate figures and presentation slides. Mark
Wogahn has made sure that the software to produce the book (e.g., Latex
macros, fonts) works properly.
Our Associate Publisher, Dan Sayre, provided expert guidance as we
prepared this edition. He was assisted by Carolyn Weisman, who managed
many details of this project smoothly. The Senior Production Editor Ken
Santor, was instrumental in handling all the production details. Lauren Sapira
and Cindy Jolmson have been very helpful with getting material ready and
available for WileyPlus.
Beverly Peavler copy-edited the manuscript. The freelance proofreader was
Katrina Avery; the freelance indexer was Word Co, Inc.
Abraham Silberschatz, New Haven, CT, 2008
Peter Baer Galvin, Burlington, MA 2008
Greg Gagne, Salt Lake City, UT, 2008